## My adventures in programming


I am Lesley Langdon, wife, mother, amateur chef and horticulturist, and cum laude graduate pursuing a new career in computer science.  After careers as a restaurant manager and realtor I have finally found my passion.  My goal is to work in big data but I have enjoyed every course I have taken through my degree program so much that I will savor the opportunity to work my way up through a company.  My dream job will be at a company that is either so small that everyone works on every project or a company large enough to encourage team members to explore various roles and responsibilities.    
  
This ePortfolio has been a valuable exercise in evaluating what I have learned through the course of my degree program and what I am proficient at.  The first project I have included uses the work done in one course which I have modified and enhanced to show a variety of skills.  I would like to stress that efficiency was not the objective.  It is designed to show programming skill, specifically in data structures, algorithms, logic and readability of code.  The original assignment consisted of four different data structures; binary search tree, linked list, hash table and vector.  Each one was developed using C++ in an individual application that read in data from a csv file and had functions to store, sort, display and remove data.  

My first task was an informal yet thourough code review.   I had reviewed quite a bit of code in my collaboration and team projects course, we used git to review our team members code contributions.  I did not have prior experience with a video code review, but I am so glad we used that technique.  It was so helpful to be able to re-watch it as I progressed through the project.  There were parts of my original proposal that changed dramatically but, for other parts watching the code review helped me evaluate if I had accomplished my goal or not. 

Next, I worked to combine them into one application.  I used mostly header files with source files for the main() function and as part of the csv parser.  I pulled all repetitive code into a header file and included that file in each of the data structure header files.  In the next phase, I modified each data structure to search by a different field.  Once again, this was not about efficiency, it was about demonstrating an ability to write different algorithms to achieve a goal.  The most valuable lesson I took away from this stage of the project is that I can quickly brush up on a language that I have not used in a year or two and be able to produce quality code.  I believe it all goes back to a programming language course I took.  The focus of the class was to understand the characteristics shared by most languages and what we learned was that when you know what you want your application to do, it’s then just a matter of looking up the syntax.  

Now that I had four applications designed to do the same thing merged together into a single application, I began to make changes so each data structure would sort and search by a different field.  The data provided had four different fields, so each structure was modified to sort by one of those fields.  I did eliminate the remove function from most of the files because only one was searching by a unique value.  

Finally, we were tasked with enhancing a database.  I continued with the same base assignment with the intent of showing a third way to store, organize and search this same data set.  This was a lot of fun.  I had no experience importing data into a database from a development standpoint, so I had to do some research.  In an effort to utilize a few different tools and show some varied skills, I build the database in MySQL from the command line which is the technique we had used in my introduction to SQL course.  I moved on to MySQL Workbench for importing and querying the data.

If you continue to watch my progress, this page will be regularly updated with additional projects and further enhancements.  My next steps will be to further develop the database to show tables and relationships.  I am also working on revising and updating a project demonstrating the importance of network security and the components of a solid security protocol.  
 

### Visit my CS499 Capstone [final project](https://lesleyplangdon.github.io/CS499FinalProject/)


